Welcome back in this section we finalized our understanding of algorithms with dynamic programming and
we've completed all of this.
And now the very last piece of the puzzle is complete dynamic programming and specifically using memoization
to optimize our problems.
Completes our entire diagram are my map of how to master the interview.
So what do we learn.
We learned that with dynamic programming we can identify these types of problems by first seeing hey
is there a problem that can be divided into subproblems of smaller pieces where most likely you're using
recursion.
If you're using recursion then ask yourself Are there any repetitive subproblems or tasks that I'm doing
over and over.
In that case we can memorize the subproblems so we don't constantly recalculate things and use this
idea of dynamic programming so that we get a nice raise from our boss because we just made the code
so efficient.
Now memorization is a common strategy for dynamic programming problems which are problems that I just
described here such as the Fibonacci problem.
There is one other way of incorporating dynamic programming and it's called bottom up approach and we
won't focus too much on it but I want to show you quickly how it might look like.
In our case there's actually a third way to solve this problem and the way to do it is well it's actually
fairly simple.
We can do Fibonacci mastered to
and in this function we'll have the answer which will be the list of our Fibonacci sequence which is
right up here and we're going to prefilled it with zero and one and then from there all we do is a for
loop and say Let i equal to two because we're now starting at the second index.
Why is less than or equal to the number and annual increment.
And then finally we will say answer that push and we'll push to the next item in this stack.
The results of the first and the second.
So I minus two plus answer High minus one and then we can just return answer dot pop which will give
us the very last item in the list according to what index we're looking for.
So that if I run this
I'd call it DP to
I should still get up and I have to make sure that I pass in let's say 100 if I ran this.
There you go.
We get both of the same results.
And this type of approach avoids recursion.
Some would say is not as clean not as easy to understand while others will say no this makes a lot more
sense.
It really depends on your preference and this type of solution is called bottom up because you start
from the simplest solution from the bottom and slowly work your way up higher and higher towards more
complex problems.
But these types of problems although easier to see are harder to figure out when to use.
So I prefer the the top down memoization approach of using this but I just want to show you that there
is another way of doing things.
And in an interview it's very rare that you're going to be asked to implement both methods but at the
end of it all I hope you see the power of dynamic programming.
The simple concept of saving ourselves a lot of trouble thinking about how our programs run and how
we can optimize it so that we don't do any repeated tasks.
If you're able to notice these things then you are a great engineer.
I'll see you in the next one.